So in this video we're going to be looking at selecting data from tables where certain data is between
two values.
So here I've selected stuff from the Orders table and you can see we have this all the time column.
So it displays the order time for each order in the table.
But let's say we only wanted it for all the times for the first week of January 2017.
So to do that we could add a WHERE clause and use the between key word.
So let's do that now.
So I've already written selects a product ID customer ID order time from orders and I can add a WHERE
clause here which will have a between statement.
So I can say where all the time is between two values.
So I have to write between now because I want the first week of January I opened single quotes and inside
single quotes I typed 2017 I won I won for the first of January and then I have to have a second value.
So I type and 2017 I won again for January and then 07.
So just the first week of January and I can run that statement on its return some values and you can
see that it's return values whether it would Timon's first generally second third fourth fifth.
And there were no orders on the 7th of January so it didn't return any for that.
But it's just returned values where the all the time is between the first and 7th of January.
And it also includes where the all the time is the first of January.
So we use between Stayman when dealing with Date column but we can also use it for a number of column.
So let's change this order Time column to customer ID.
So still in the Orders table a list type customer id between and let's say between 5 and 10.
So we don't need single quotes because we're dealing with numbers now with let's say where a customer
ID is between 5 and 10.
Let's run this statement and you can see it's only going to return values where the customer ID is between
5 and 10 but it's going to include five and 10.
So always include five and 10 and you can see the others are 6 7 8 and 9.
But there's no other customer IDs returned.
And you can also do it with strings.
So we don't have any strings in order table but I select store from our customer table and you can see
we have first and last name which are strings of words.
So let's say we wanted to select where the last name was between a and L and we can simply add a WHERE
clause to select stuff from customer.
Well last name
is between a and now.
So we have to put it in single quotes and we can run now and you can see it's returned Armstrong blue.
JOHNSON So anyone with a last name that's between NL has been returned.
So this is how we use the between statement in escrow and you can use it for dates numbers or strings.
But it's particularly useful when you're dealing with dates.
You want to get some data between certain dates for a certain month for a certain week or just any two
days.
So that's it for this video.